# MLOps_task-4
This project aims to demonstrate the end-to-end process of training a machine learning model, creating a Docker image for deployment, setting up a Flask endpoint to serve predictions, and pushing the code to GitHub

# Steps followed for this task:
## Dataset Selection and Model Training: 
  Selected a dataset from Kaggle and trained a machine learning model using Python libraries like scikit-learn or TensorFlow.
  dataset: https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/kelvinkelue/credit-card-fraud-prediction/data 
  Model: DecisionTreeClassifier

## Dockerfile Construction: 
  Constructed a Dockerfile to encapsulate the model, along with any necessary dependencies.

## Maintain Makefile and requirements.txt: 
  Maintained a Makefile to automate common tasks such as building the Docker image, running the container, and pushing the code to GitHub. Also, maintained a requirements.txt file listing    all the dependencies required for the project.

## Flask Endpoint Setup: 
  Set up a Flask endpoint to serve predictions generated by the trained model. The endpoint accepts input data, preprocess it if necessary, and returns the model's predictions.

## GitHub Repository: 
  Pushed all project files, including dataset, code, Dockerfile, Makefile, requirements.txt, and README.md, to a GitHub repository.

# Instructions to Run this repository:
This repository contains code for training a sentiment analysis model, deploying it using Docker and Flask, and pushing the project to GitHub.

## Prerequisites
Before running this project, make sure you have the following installed on your system:

Docker
Python 3
pip

# Steps to Run
Clone the Repository:

	git clone https://github.com/zubedafatima/MLOps_task-4.git
 
Navigate to the Project Directory:

	cd MLops_task-4

Construct Docker Image:

Make sure you have constructed the Dockerfile, Makefile, and requirements.txt as described in the project.

	make build
 
Run Docker Container:

	make run
 
Access the Flask Endpoint:

	Once the Docker container is running, access the Flask endpoint at http://localhost:4000.
 
Push Project to GitHub:

	git add .
	git commit -m "Added Dockerfile, Flask app, and Makefile"
	git push origin master
	
